COPYRIGHT.md, before:

=============================================================================
AMANZI: COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
=============================================================================

Amanzi is being developed as a multi-lab open-source community code.
Although, copyright is asserted by each lab on the contributions of
its employees, Amanzi has a single open-source license, namely the
three-clause BSD license.  Terms of use, redistribution and
modification, as well as the disclaimer are given in the BSD license
at the end of this document.

----------------------------------------------
Los Alamos National Laboratory:
----------------------------------------------
 
  Copyright (c) 2010-2014, Los Alamos National Security, LLC
  All rights reserved.
   
  Copyright 2010-2014. Los Alamos National Security, LLC. This software was
  produced under U.S. Government contract DE-AC52-06NA25396 for Los Alamos
  National Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by Los Alamos National
  Security, LLC for the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has
  rights to use, reproduce, and distribute this software.  NEITHER THE
  GOVERNMENT NOR LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC MAKES ANY WARRANTY,
  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LIABILITY FOR THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE.  If software is modified to produce derivative works, such
  modified software should be clearly marked, so as not to confuse it with
  the version available from LANL.

  Additionally, this library is free software; you can redistribute it
  and/or modify it under the terms of the three-clause BSD license
  that is included at the end of this document.

----------------------------------------------
Lawrence Berkely National Laboratory
----------------------------------------------

  Amanzi Copyright (c) 2010-2014, The Regents of the University of
  California, through Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory  (subject to
  receipt of any required approvals from the U.S. Dept. of Energy).  All
  rights reserved.

----------------------------------------------
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
----------------------------------------------

  Copyright 2010-2014 Battelle Memorial Institute.

  U.S. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS NOTICE.  These data were produced by Battelle
  Memorial Institute (BMI) under Contract No. DE AC05-76RLO1830 with
  the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).  For a five-year period from
  December 15, 2010, the U.S. Government is granted for itself and
  others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable
  worldwide license in this data to reproduce, prepare derivative
  works, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of
  the U.S. Government.  There is provision for the possible extension
  of the term of this license.  Subsequent to that period or any
  extension granted, the U.S. Government is granted for itself and
  others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable
  worldwide license in this data to reproduce, prepare derivative
  works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display
  publicly, and to permit others to do so.  The specific term of the
  license can be identified by inquiry made to BMI or DOE.  Neither
  the United States nor DOE, nor any of their employees, makes any
  warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or
  responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
  data, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that
  its use would not infringe privately owned rights.

----------------------------------------------
Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) License
----------------------------------------------

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the names of the national laboratories listed above, 
      nor their operating companies, nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
      from this software without specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  NATIONAL LABORATORIES LISTED ABOVE, OR THEIR OPERATING COMPANIES, BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
  BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

=============================================================================

Commit message:

Updated Copyright formatting and LANS to Triad.

COPYRIGHT.md, after:

# Amanzi: COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Amanzi is being developed as a multi-lab open-source community code.
Although, copyright is asserted by each lab on the contributions of
its employees, Amanzi has a single open-source license, namely the
three-clause BSD license.  Terms of use, redistribution and
modification, as well as the disclaimer are given in the BSD license
at the end of this document.

----------------------------------------------
Los Alamos National Laboratory:
----------------------------------------------
 
  Copyright (c) 2010-2020, Triad National Security, LLC.
  All rights reserved.
   
  Copyright 2010-2020. Triad National Security, LLC. This software was 
  produced under U.S. Government contract 89233218CNA000001 for Los Alamos 
  National Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by Triad National Security, 
  LLC for the U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security 
  Administration. If this software is modified to produce derivative works, 
  such modified software should be clearly marked, so as not to confuse it 
  with the version available from LANL. All rights in the program are 
  reserved by Triad National Security, LLC, and the U.S. Department of 
  Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. The Government is 
  granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, 
  paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this material to reproduce, 
  prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, perform 
  publicly and display publicly, and to permit others to do so.
  
  Additionally, this is free software; you can redistribute it and/or 
  modify it under the terms of the three-clause BSD license that is 
  included at the end of this document. 

----------------------------------------------
Lawrence Berkely National Laboratory
----------------------------------------------

  Amanzi Copyright (c) 2010-2020, The Regents of the University of
  California, through Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory  (subject to
  receipt of any required approvals from the U.S. Dept. of Energy).  All
  rights reserved.

----------------------------------------------
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
----------------------------------------------

  Copyright 2010-2020 Battelle Memorial Institute.

  U.S. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS NOTICE.  These data were produced by Battelle
  Memorial Institute (BMI) under Contract No. DE AC05-76RLO1830 with
  the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).  For a five-year period from
  December 15, 2010, the U.S. Government is granted for itself and
  others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable
  worldwide license in this data to reproduce, prepare derivative
  works, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of
  the U.S. Government.  There is provision for the possible extension
  of the term of this license.  Subsequent to that period or any
  extension granted, the U.S. Government is granted for itself and
  others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable
  worldwide license in this data to reproduce, prepare derivative
  works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display
  publicly, and to permit others to do so.  The specific term of the
  license can be identified by inquiry made to BMI or DOE.  Neither
  the United States nor DOE, nor any of their employees, makes any
  warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or
  responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
  data, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that
  its use would not infringe privately owned rights.

----------------------------------------------
Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) License
----------------------------------------------

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the names of the national laboratories listed above, 
      nor their operating companies, nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
      from this software without specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  NATIONAL LABORATORIES LISTED ABOVE, OR THEIR OPERATING COMPANIES, BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
  BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
